Hey, I am Jonathan Lucas and welcome back to Japan Treasure Hunters. Today on Iwo
Jima were we're going around to a few caves and stuff and such like that
So right now we just found one that was in the boonies. We just came across it
Obviously, it's already been excavated because you can see a few things hanging out
You're gonna see trash and and let me emphasize that as the trash is there for a reason, you know,
like the can the beer cans the water bottles.
A short explanation is
during the time when we were attacking they didn't have a lot of water. So this is kind of like a
An offering to them so that way they can have water and we all know why alcohol is there because everybody likes alcohol
So we're fixing to go in this cave. So
I'll see you in there.
All right, as you can see it's really really tiny not sure where it goes or how far back it goes
Obviously, I'm a little too big for these things Wow, I'll tell you comes up on the other side
Maybe get over here. I can stand up a little bit
Yeah, I can move a little bit so I get
That comes right back up on the other side, but it goes down here
So maybe we can
Check that out. But as you can see there's
Not my favorite items
spider webs right here
All right, let's try it only live once right
Stuff moving down, okay. It just gets really really tiny and
There's spiders everywhere. So yeah, let's roll roll back out. I'm not crawling down there
Okay
Well, that's a short cave
Yeah, maybe the next one will be a little bit better. All right, so here we are at the general's cave
We're gonna go through this one again. I know a
while ago on the past few videos we did this is some we're gonna take our time go through it and
hopefully we can get to the other side of the road which is really interestingly cool, but it's nice and dark down there and it's
Kind of scary but let's go. Alright, so here's the entrance you go on down into this cave
It looks nice and cool and easy to get into because there's steps
and it looks like they actually clean out the steps a little bit from the last time I was here so
It's a little bit easier than always before
There used to be a generator
Up here that you could use to
Turn the lights on but they moved it to the next  cave that we're going to go to
So as you can see there's rope in here and this is just to help guide you through
Because it is quite a maze
once you get in here then
Gotta go through all your hands and knees a few spots
You can see how tight it is in here
Almost stand up on your knees
There's two ways to go once you get in here.  Go this way which is the way we're gonna go and then also
go back this way which comes straight up where we're gonna meet on the other side anyway, so
Let's go this way
So this is the
little
memorial for
General Kuribayashi
And it looks like he's got some friends here
No, actually we steamed up didn't we?
Yeah, there we go
So you got somebody's got company.  This is a picture of him and
Offerings for him. Alright, let's continue on
It's another little room here
And then once you get in here you can stand up and move a little bit more wait, let's see
Tunnels everywhere
So
Listen, here's the main cavern
The cave it just got like about five degrees 5-10 degrees warmer in here
But you look around in the cave
There breathing a little hard cuz it's a little bit hard to breathe in here
I wish they had the lights on then it's a lot easier to see what's going on for some reason
staying blurry
All the offerings and shrines this used to be a generator
Alright, so we're just gonna continue on a
Little red sign right there. I don't know if you can shine the light on the white sign
right there that says a
Kikken which means
dangerous.
So let's continue walking
Yeah
See some rebar and it just got like even warmer in this spot right here
kind of crazy
That goes back a little ways not sure where that one goes because you can see starting to fog up because in the warmer
And then this goes up to where he actually slept was up here
If I can get up there without knocking myself out
Actually, we're not gonna go up there just because the footing is not so great
See how it's getting really tight. Sorry, sorry about the fogging up
Then there's little spaces like this
There's a other passageway around here somewhere
Yeah
Right here
I've never gone all the way down to the bottom of this so I have no idea
What's down here,
but
it looks like it just
Goes to the bottom and it caves in
That's what it kind of looks like. So I'm
not going to go down there any further than we have to
So you can see how they scrape these out
Dug in well
Just mind-boggling. How much work
was put into
Digging these tunnels out
So as you can see it's getting a little bit
Lower in here hands and knees work here then we're gonna be on
Another side lost my lights to get up here
Let's get up here up on my light back on and it's really hot up in here
Got warm didn't it? Yeah..
It's kind of hard to see up, let me wipe off the lens again
So we're leaving the General's cave actually now
And we'll go over to the Medical Officer's cave which that was probably it there
Now we're just going to be creeping out the other side of that cave over here
hopefully
See machine parts here junk just left
Some more radio parts it looks like
Alcohol bottle is an offering
And me being a big guy like I am I got a crawl this spot throughout
We're actually almost out the other side you can see
Things left in
Kind of feel it's getting a little bit cooler fresh air around
See the exit right here.
That was the General's Cave
That came up on Medical Officer's side
Actually
So here we are at the Medical Cave
There's a generator. So there's actually some pretty decent lighting in here and again in the cave
you're going to see some water bottles some beer bottles and
Trash on the side. It does for
Offering so don't be surprised is there for a reason so all right, let's roll
So as you can see
There's a lot of stuff left over they did that because this is one of the main tourist cave
That is totally okay for anybody to come into that comes out here
so
Nobody's walking on graves
Nobody's doing anything like that has already been excavated as much as it can be excavated and deemed safe for entry. So
See there's barrels in here. There's all types of
Old stuff
We're gonna walk around the corner up here and you're gonna be totally surprised that the temperature difference because it goes from a
Probably a balmy eighty degrees right here to a balmy hundred and ten up around the corner
It seem to used to have more lights it seems like but
You can see there's a lot of people that have come up in here
But this is the old medical cave for the Japanese. So whenever wounded soldiers that come in here for
medical
Yeah, get right here. It starts getting hot
Around here to another
Monument for offerings little shrine for offerings just so the dead can go peacefully
Come back here
When it comes up
Right here, and that's it. And
Actually here. It's cooler then right here
And so so that was this cave I'm sure it was a lot larger than this day before some of the cave-ins it's happened
He had little partners a little warm a little warm
it looks like actually they
Stacked up these rocks along the wall higher than they were the last time I was here. I
wonder why
It's just really interesting to see
All right, so here we are we're standing in front of the Last Stand Cave
It's called the Last Stand Cave because this is actually the last real
battle
cave that there was
30 soldiers jumped out at the Americans and it was that it was like their last Banzai charge
So we're gonna walk through the cave right shortly
You're gonna see some stuff that looks like trash and it is true
Some of it is trash but it's also offerings and there's some artifacts are better left over some helmets some guns
from the time that this cave was
excavated so let's hit it.
Alright, so we're gonna go walk down the middle
Cave here and they all actually kind of link in together as you can see
But I want to get a good get a good look at the items that are left over here
So kind of interesting
Here's here's some helmets from soldiers some guns
Some sake bottles, water bottles you see a lot of water bottles and that's because they were in
Dehydration mode at this time water was running, low food running, low supplies running low
So that's why you see a lot of water bottles
You can see the caves not too small really I mean, I I can almost stand up in it
goes this way
this way
once you come in here though, it gets kind of deep and
If you go this way
This little sign right here says that there's a there's well Oh over here
Well opening so you got to be careful
Mm-hmm
Yeah, it's right here so I'm not gonna get too close but you can see down
Kind of dangerous so so that's really
Amazing to see and just come around here and then it stops right here
So odds are
this
Little hole right here
had some ladders going down so that way they could have more places to
Yeah, that's really far down oh, yeah you can see down
And then as we go back out we're gonna go to the left here
Both food people brought out food for offerings and stuff
Let's see on their way up right there
Come over here
Not not too much in this cave actually then it comes up right here
Went down here, but it looks like it's all caved in. Here's
This this comes down to where we came down into the tunnel and then come on on out